qid	text	difficulty	quality	comment
2.101	Patients with hearing loss	1	2	
2.102	Patients with complicated GERD who receive endoscopy	1	2	-Complicated GERD is a rather ambiguous term - could use clarification to yield better results (ex. stage a/b/c) -Endoscopy is a blanket term for visualisation of a hollow organ - therefore some search results included patients who have had colonoscopies, but not upper endoscopies relevant to GERD.
101	Patients with hearing loss	0	2	
102	Patients with complicated GERD who receive endoscopy	1	1	The diagnosis of complicated GERD vs GERD would be quite clinically subjective so al patients that had GERD or equivalent symptoms were included.
103	Hospitalized patients treated for methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus  MRSA  endocarditis	0	2	Treatment of MRSA is the same no matter where it is in the body. Could have picked up a lot of documents because of the treatment regime or MRSA. 
104	Patients diagnosed with localized prostate cancer and treated with robotic surgery	0	2	All the documents had a radical retropubic prostectomy done, which isn't robotic. Could put the name of that procedure as a negative to exclude those?
105	Patients with dementia	0	2	
106	Patients who had positron emission tomography  PET   magnetic resonance imaging  MRI   or computed tomography  CT  for staging or monitoring of cancer	0	2	This was clear cut in terms of having/not having caner or risk of and whether imaging was preformed.
107	Patients with ductal carcinoma in situ  DCIS			
108	Patients treated for vascular claudication surgically	0	2	Nearly all the patients had neurogenic claudication as presenting factor.
109	Women with osteopenia	0	2	Usually stated as finding from radiology or past medical history. 
110	Patients being discharged from the hospital on hemodialysis	0	2	once you have end stage renal disease, you are on dialysis until you get a transplant or you die. none of the patients were received transplants. some died. none of them started dialysis in hospital or had conditions where the kidney could repair.
111	Patients with chronic back pain who receive an intraspinal pain medicine pump	1	2	The definition of chronic back pain used for these judgements was "greater than 3 months"
112	Female patients with breast cancer with mastectomies during admission	1	2	As per sample documents emailed to myself, mastectomies during past admissions DO satisfy the query.
113	Adult patients who received colonoscopies during admission which revealed adenocarcinoma	0	2	Might need to narrow the search field to a colon adenocarcinoma. Adenocarcinomas occured in the lung and liver in two of the documents. 
114	Adult patients discharged home with palliative care / home hospice	0	2	
115	Adult patients who are admitted with an asthma exacerbation	1	2	
116	Patients who received methotrexate for cancer treatment while in the hospital	0	2	Methotrexate is a common drug that is usually used for rheumatoid arthritis. All the documents had that. 
117	Patients with Post traumatic Stress Disorder	0	2	
118	Adults who received a coronary stent during an admission	1	2	Majority of the somewhat relevants had prior stents that were not causing any problems. None of them received a current stent. Some of the documents had cardiac symptoms but none of them needed or got a stent. 
119	Adult patients who presented to the emergency room with with anion gap acidosis secondary to insulin dependent diabetes	0	2	i took insulin dependent diabetes to be type 1 diabetes, rather than type 2 diabetes being treated with insulin.
120	Patients admitted for treatment of CHF exacerbation	1	2	
121	Patients with CAD who presented to the Emergency Department with Acute Coronary Syndrome and were given Plavix	1	1	The function of Plavix can be achieved by other drugs like aspirin so many times the patient is on aspirin instead. For this query if the person was specifically looking for Plavix it wouldn't be relevant. But if it was a drug that performs the same function as Plavix it would be relevant. I put them down as somewhat relevant for those cases. Also for a presentation like chest pain acute coronary syndrome is usually considered. For many of these documents it was considered and then proven not be the case. 
122	Patients who received total parenteral nutrition while in the hospital	0	2	Relatively straight forward. The total parenteral nutrition can be down outside of hospital so the dates had to be checked on the reports to see if they were on TPN at home when they came to hospital or if they actually received some TPN at hospital. Documents picked it up pretty good. 
123	Diabetic patients who received diabetic education in the hospital			
124	Patients who present to the hospital with episodes of acute loss of vision secondary to glaucoma	1	1	Some cases had glaucoma, others the only relation to the eye was negative assessments on screening questions. 
125	Patients co infected with Hepatitis C and HIV			
126	Patients admitted with a diagnosis of multiple sclerosis	1	2	Surely this patient has been admitted with a diagnosis of MS in the past, however, this most recent admission is for another reason, so I deemed the case not relevant to the query.
127	Patients admitted with morbid obesity and secondary diseases of diabetes and or hypertension	1	2	Without dates, it was difficult to ascertain whether or not hypertension and diabetes were secondary to patients' obesity, as is suggested by the query.
128	Patients admitted for hip or knee surgery who were treated with anti coagulant medications post op	0	2	
129	Patients admitted with chest pain and assessed with CT angiography	0	2	depends on the purpose of the query. ct angiography would typically be used on chest to investigate chest pain if there was worry of pulmonary embolism. however, with strokes, chest pain would be a more atypical presentation and probably considered secondary or incidental. there would be other more significant symptoms to yield a provisional diagnosis of stroke, that would then require a ct angiography of the head.
130	Children admitted with cerebral palsy who received physical therapy	0	2	easy to do with such specific criteria. only a few were children, only one had cerebral palsy, the physical therapy was often post cancer or stroke. I suspect that the search would have come with different cases, if age or birthdate were searched rather than the word children. with the deidentified records, this would be a challenge. it was frequent that the word children was in the text, but not in that context of describing the patient.  there weren't any cases that fit the query.
131	Patients who underwent minimally invasive abdominal surgery	1	2	Minimally invasive abdominal operation is a rather ambiguous term - difficult to classify. Further, details of past operations were not included in medical histories, therefore it was difficult to ascertain whether or not they could have been minimally invasive. 
132	Patients admitted for surgery of the cervical spine for fusion or discectomy	0	2	very straight forward
133	Patients admitted for care who take herbal products for osteoarthritis	1	1	Assumed herbal products to mean anything not prescribed i.e. hyaluronic acid, multivitamins etc. Anybody reported to taking vitamins was include as somewhat relevant as in only one case the herbal/ingredients were specifically identified. All people in the search had some degree of OA/DJD.
134	Patients admitted with chronic seizure disorder to control seizure activity	1	2	
135	Cancer patients with liver metastasis treated in the hospital who underwent a procedure	0	2	The four documents picked up primary cancers of the liver that originated in the liver. Rather than metastatic cancers that originated elsewhere and went to the liver. 
136	Children with dental caries	0	2	all children, none had caries
137	Patients with inflammatory disorders receiving TNF inhibitor treatments	1	2	
138	Patients with acute tubular necrosis due to aminoglycoside antibiotics	1	1	The search found mainly people with kidney problems, of these very few with ATN and none with clearly established Aminoglycoside toxicity.
139	Patients who presented to the emergency room with an actual or suspected miscarriage	0	2	Half of the patients were male and half the female patients were well past reproductive years. The complaints and symptoms made pregnancy and miscarriage extremely unlikely
140	Patients who developed disseminated intravascular coagulation in the hospital	1	2	If DIC present, hard to ascertain whether or not it occurred while in hospital.
141	Adult inpatients with Alzheimer s disease admitted from nursing homes with pressure ulcers	0	2	
142	Patients admitted with Hepatitis C and IV drug use	0	2	
143	Patients who have had a carotid endarterectomy	0	2	
144	Patients with diabetes mellitus who also have thrombocytosis	0	2	Only one document. Not sure of a pattern. Picked up on the word thrombocytosis I'm guessing? The rest of the criteria was not met. 
145	Patients with lupus nephritis and thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura	0	2	
146	Patients treated for post partum problems including depression  hypercoagulability or cardiomyopathy	1	2	
147	Patients with left lower quadrant abdominal pain	1	2	THe patient described only upper left abdo pain but on physical examination was tender on the left side generally. May need further investigation to specify location exactly.
148	Patients acutely treated for migraine in the emergency department	1	2	Difficult to ascertain whether or not "migraine" could be the actual diagnosis based on some of the histories. In cases where it sounded like it could be a migraine, but was diagnosed and treated as something else, I said it was NOT relevant.
149	Patients with delirium  hypertension  and tachycardia	2	1	hard to ascertain whether all these symptoms were experienced at once. delirium was not explicitly diagnosed in some cases, but it was a likely cause to the mental state fluctuations, delirium is a tough thing to diagnose because it fluctuates and is a symptom of a lot of causes. it can be corrected by treating something seemingly uninvolved.
150	Patients who have cerebral palsy and depression	0	2	
151	Patients with liver disease taking SSRI antidepressants	1	2	
152	Patients with Diabetes exhibiting good Hemoglobin A1c Control   8 0	1	1	The cutoff for A1c levels to judge diabetes control is sometimes subjective. It is dependent complications that the patient has because of their diabetes. Those might need to be added to the search query to determine good diabetes control. 
153	Patients admitted to the hospital with end stage chronic disease who are offered hospice care	1	2	Although the term "hospice care" never specifically arose, the patients with end stage disease who lived in other care facilities were flagged as "somewhat relevant", as those venues can often serve the same purpose.
154	Patients with Primary Open Angle Glaucoma  POAG	0	2	
155	Heart Failure  HF   Beta Blocker Therapy for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction  LVSD	0	2	Left ventricular systolic dysfunction is usually assessed by calculating ejection fraction, which was not calculated in majority of the documents. Beta blockers are also used to treat other things like high blood pressure. Some ambiguity in documents where it simply says they are on a beta blocker, but may not be on it specifically for the heart failure. 
156	Patients with depression on antidepressant medication	0	2	thought the query did well to pick up on a lot of the cases where depression was not explicitly diagnosed. mental health issues are frequently not charted very well. this would be a good way to track down people with depression regardless of the explicit presence of the diagnosis in the chart.
157	Patients admitted to hospital with symptomatic cervical spine lesions	1	2	Patients with complaints of cervical neck pain, cervical spine lesions in the history were found, however they were not admitted for this reason and the symptoms related to this may be vague or unrelated to the neck.
158	Patients with esophageal cancer who develop pericardial effusion			
159	Patients with cerebral edema secondary to infection	1	2	tried to be thorough. infection comes in man forms so i did my best to locate the instance of infection in each case.  the not relevant documents tended to be quite long. they were mostly post stroke admissions that had a lot of complications that included infections. the edema was generally due to the stroke, and the infection was secondary to being hospitalized for so long, rather than the edema being secondary to the infection. there was always the risk of a patient having a secondary cerebral edema brought on by an infection that was secondary to being hospitalized for a stroke. cerebral edema secondary to infection would be a more common situation if the patient had meningitis, encephalitis or a systemic infection. there were very few of these cases in the dataset.
160	Patients with Low Back Pain who had Imaging Studies	0	2	
161	Patients with adult respiratory distress syndrome	1	2	All of the above patients signs of Acute Onset Respiratory distress. The causes were those listed for ARDS. The exact 4 criteria for diagnosing ARDS was not met in all 3 cases but in most it would be close
162	Patients with hypertension on antihypertensive medication	0	2	once diagnosed with hypertension, you are generally considered to have it for the rest of your life. for this reason, it can be forgotten in records sometimes because patients don't consider themselves to have it if their pressure is well controlled by antihypertensives. people are also often started on antihypertensives after a severe cardiac event as a prophylactic measure. they may be on an antihypertensive, despite never having had hypertension
163	Patients treated for lower extremity chronic wound	1	2	
164	Adults under age 60 undergoing alcohol withdrawal	0	2	Majority of them had drug withdrawal but no history of drinking alcohol. 
165	Patients who have gluten intolerance or celiac disease	1	1	These documents had a few pathology notes where they had the check lists for intestinal changes in celiac disease. Namely the checklist had a box for "villous blunting", which is seen in celiac disease. 
166	Patients who have hypoaldosteronism and hypokalemia	1	2	
167	Patients with AIDS who develop pancytopenia	1	1	Both documents picked up on pancytopenia, which both resolved quickly. Neither document explicitly said that the patient had AIDS or HIV, which they would usually. 
168	Patients with Coronary Artery Disease with Prior Myocardial Infarction on Beta Blocker Therapy	0	2	Some confusion regarding the interpretation of this query. It was interpreted as patients needing to satisfy 3 criteria: 1. CAD 2. MI 3. Beta-blocker. It was not interpreted as patients having: 1. CAD 2. MI while on a beta-blocker.
169	Elderly patients with subdural hematoma			
170	Adult patients who presented to the emergency room with suicide attempts by drug overdose	0	2	
171	Patients with thyrotoxicosis treated with beta blockers	0	2	a lot of hits for beta blockers and very few for any thyroid dysfunction
172	Patients with peripheral neuropathy and edema	1	1	Large amount of patients had one or the other but none had both signs together.
173	Patients over 65 who had Pneumonia Vaccination Status presently or previously	1	1	None of them stated anything about vaccination status however many of the patients had chronic conditions that would normally be managed with regular vaccinations. Put them as somewhat relevant. 
174	Elderly patients with ventilator associated pneumonia	1	2	Nearly all the people found were not elderly. Most had a history of General Anaesthetic but some were very remote. most of the conditions were unrelated to pneumonia.
175	Elderly patients with endocarditis	0	2	the commonality between many of these documents was the fact that the patient had some sort of organ transplant.  in the case of endocarditis, valve replacement would be necessary if the endocarditis led to severe valve dysfunction. this would sort of be like a transplant. i don't believe that the patient would need to be on immunosuppression though. in the case of people who had received transplants, they might be at higher risk of endocarditis because they would be receiving immunosuppressive drugs. not sure if the query system notes risk factors, but this was also something that i noted in a previous query about cerebral palsy. many of the patients were african american, and this is a risk factor for cerebral palsy, but only 1 of about 20 of them actually had cerebral palsy.  
176	Patients with Heart Failure  HF  on Angiotensin Converting Enzyme  ACE  Inhibitor or Angiotensin Receptor Blocker  ARB  Therapy for Left Ventricular Systolic Dysfunction  LVSD	1	1	In some situations the patient was on ACE inhibitors or ARB for something else. There were also scenarios where the patient was suffering with a condition that could lead to heart failure, but it was not investigated. Those were under the somewhat relevant. 
177	Patients treated for depression after myocardial infarction	1	2	suspect that they were looking for people who had depression just after an MI. the timing of all these things is difficult to track. hard to tell whether a patient had been treated for depression prior to MI. someone being treated prior would still be treated after regardless of whether it was secondary or not.  many of the admissions mentioned MI in the history rather than the admission actually being for the MI 
178	Patients with metastatic breast cancer	0	2	
179	Patients taking atypical antipsychotics without a diagnosis schizophrenia or bipolar depression	0	2	
180	Patients with cancer who developed hypercalcemia	0	2	no incidence of reported hypercalcemia, searched for calcium, Ca, hypercalcemia, 
181	Patients being evaluated for secondary hypertension	1	1	In the three cases the patients did have high blood pressure. But it is somewhat hard to interpret whether they are actively evaluating them for a secondary cause of high blood pressure or simply trying to control it. As seen in the second document. 
182	Patients with Ischemic Vascular Disease	0	2	Straightforward to look at past medical history for coronary artery disease, bypass grafts or stents. 
183	Patients presenting to the emergency room with acute vision loss	0	2	A regular screening question is usually assessment of vision. This is usually done in passing and is present on each report. I think majority of the documents got picked up because of this screening question, even though none of them had any relevance to the query of vision loss. 
184	Patients with Colon Cancer who had Chemotherapy	0	2	Picked up all the colon cancers but half of them were treated with only surgery. 
185	Patients who develop thrombocytopenia in pregnancy	1	2	
1.101	Patients with hearing loss	0	2	All cases had some notation of difficulty in hearing
1.102	Patients with complicated GERD who receive endoscopy	1	1	Difficlut to differentiate complicated form normal GERD. All patients with GERD symptoms included
3.101	Patients with hearing loss	1	2	
3.102	Patients with complicated GERD who receive endoscopy	1	1	Many patient's have GERD in their past medical history but a lot of times it is not relevant for their current presentation. The word GERD will come up a lot and will only occasionally be relevant with this search query. 
4.101	Patients with hearing loss	1	1	It was not clear whether you wanted someone with current hearing loss or someone who had experienced reversible hearing loss due to an infection.
4.102	Patients with complicated GERD who receive endoscopy	0	2	
